.Dd October 8, 2018
.Dt PERPSTAT 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm perpstat
.Nd display current status of perpd services
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl hV
.Op Fl b Ar basedir
.Ar sv ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used to report the current service status of each
.Ar sv
argument monitored by an active
.Xr perpd 8
supervisor.
.Pp
Each argument
.Ar sv
should be a service definition directory running under the supervision of
.Xr perpd 8 .
.Nm
will look for
.Ar sv
in the
.Ar basedir
directory specified with the
.Fl b
option,
or as set in the
.Ev PERP_BASE
environmental variable,
or in the current directory if neither of the previous is given.
.Pp
For each argument
.Ar sv
found in the base directory,
.Nm
queries the
.Xr perpd 8
supervisor for its runtime status.
It then prints information regarding the
.Xr perpd 8
supervisor itself,
the main service,
and its log service
.Pq if any,
one line for each process.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl b Ar basedir
Base directory.
Sets the base directory containing the service definitions named by the
.Ar sv
arguments.
If not set,
.Nm
will use the value set in the variable
.Ev PERP_BASE ,
or the current directory if neither of these are defined.
On a normal system,
the base directory will be
.Pa /etc/perp .
.It Fl h
Help.
Print a brief usage message to stderr and exit.
.It Fl V
Version.
Print the version number to stderr and exit.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Nm
exits with the following values:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width indent -offset indent -compact
.It 0
Success.
The
.Nm
command successfully processed and reported on each
.Ar sv
argument given.
Note that this status is returned even if certain problems were found and reported
for individual
.Ar sv
arguments.
.It 100
Usage error.
For unknown options or missing arguments.
Returns 100 and prints a brief diagnostic message to stderr on exit.
.It 111
System error.
For system, permission, configuration, and/or resource failures.
Returns 111 and prints a brief diagnostic message to stderr on exit.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr perp_intro 8 ,
.Xr perpboot 8 ,
.Xr perpctl 8 ,
.Xr perpd 8 ,
.Xr perpetrate 5 ,
.Xr perphup 8 ,
.Xr perpls 8 ,
.Xr perpok 8 ,
.Xr sissylog 8 ,
.Xr tinylog 8
.Sh AUTHORS
Wayne Marshall
