.Dd October 8, 2018
.Dt PERPOK 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm perpok
.Nd check a perpd service
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl hV
.Op Fl b Ar basedir
.Op Fl u Ar secs
.Op Fl v
.Ar sv
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used to check that the service
.Ar sv
is actively running under supervision of
.Xr perpd 8 .
.Pp
The argument
.Ar sv
should be a service definition directory supervised by
.Xr perpd 8 .
.Nm
will look for
.Ar sv
in the directory given with the
.Fl b
option,
or as set in the
.Ev PERP_BASE
environmental variable,
or in the current directory if neither of the previous is given.
.Pp
.Nm
returns 0 to indicate success if the definition directory
.Ar sv
exists and is under the active supervision of
.Xr perpd 8 .
.Pp
The
.Fl u
option may be given to specify a minimum uptime in
.Ar secs .
In this case,
.Nm
will further check that the main service itself is running,
is not resetting,
does not want down,
and that its uptime has been at least
.Ar secs
seconds.
If all these conditions are met,
.Nm
returns 0 to indicate success.
.Pp
If the conditions for success are not met,
.Nm
exits non-zero.
.Pp
.Nm
is intended primarily as a utility for boolean testing in scripting environments.
See the
.Xr perpstat 8
and
.Xr perpls 8
utilities for more detailed status reporting.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl b Ar basedir
Base directory.
Sets the base directory containing the service definition
.Ar sv .
If not set,
.Nm
will use the value set in the variable
.Ev PERP_BASE ,
or the current directory if neither of these are defined.
On a normal system,
the base directory will be
.Pa /etc/perp .
.It Fl h
Help.
Print a brief usage message to stderr and exit.
.It Fl u Ar secs
Uptime.
Normally
.Nm
checks only that the
.Ar sv
directory is active
.Pq exists and is sticky ,
and that
.Xr perpd 8
is actively supervising it.
This option extends the checks performed by
.Nm
to test that the main service itself is running,
is not resetting,
does not want down,
and that its uptime has been at least
.Ar secs
seconds.
Normally it is sensible to set
.Ar secs
to some small value, such as 2 or 3,
which is
just long enough to check that the service is not cycling on restarts.
.It Fl V
Version.
Print the version number to stderr and exit.
.It Fl v
Verbose.
Normally
.Nm
exits silently,
as it is designed primarily for runscripts that might use it to perform simple dependency checks
prior to starting their own services.
This option causes
.Nm
to print a message reporting either success or failure to stderr on exit.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Nm
exits with the following values:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width indent -offset indent -compact
.It 0
Success.
The service
.Ar sv
is active and a
.Xr perpd 8
supervisor has been found running for it.
Additionally,
if the
.Fl u
option has been given,
the main service itself has been found running,
not resetting,
not wanting down,
and with an uptime of at least
.Ar secs
seconds.
.It 1
Failure.
The service directory
.Ar sv
was found not to be active,
or a
.Xr perpd 8
supervisor was not found running for it,
or the additional constraints imposed for uptime checking
with the
.Fl u
option were not met.
.It 100
Usage error.
For unknown options, missing arguments, or if
.Ar sv
does not name a directory.
Prints a brief diagnostic message to stderr on exit.
.It 111
System error.
Unexpected failures during system calls, privilege and/or resource problems,
or configuration errors in the
.Xr perpd 8
system.
Prints a brief diagnostic message to stderr on exit.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Nm
may be used as a basic dependency checking utility within service runscripts:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
#!/bin/sh
if test ${1} = "start" ; then
  if ! perpok -u3 foo ; then
    echo "dependency foo not running"
    exit 1
  fi
  # otherwise foo ok, continue to start service:
  exec /usr/bin/bar ...
fi
.Ed
.Pp
This example shows a runscript for a
.Dq bar
service that uses
.Nm
to require a dependency on another service named
.Dq foo .
If foo has not been running for at least 3 seconds,
the runscript exits immediately.
The
.Xr perpd 8
supervisor running this service will then continue to try restarting it at one second intervals,
until the
.Nm
dependency check succeeds.
.Pp
Note that, when using
.Nm
in a normal collection of services running under
.Xr perpd 8 ,
.Ev PERP_BASE
will always be properly predefined in the runscript environment.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr perp_intro 8 ,
.Xr perpboot 8 ,
.Xr perpctl 8 ,
.Xr perpd 8 ,
.Xr perpetrate 5 ,
.Xr perphup 8 ,
.Xr perpls 8 ,
.Xr perpstat 8 ,
.Xr sissylog 8 ,
.Xr tinylog 8
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Wayne Marshall
.Sh CAVEATS
For use as a dependency tool,
.Nm
by itself is of course limited.
As illustrated in the example section above,
.Nm
may find a dependency running okay at startup,
but there is no guarantee that it will continue to run for as long
as the dependent service requires it.
.Pp
A collection of services running under
.Xr perpd 8
tends to be reliable,
so that the use of
.Nm
for basic dependency checking at startup is normally adequate.
Interrelated services may also use
.Nm
in combination with runscript
.Ar reset
targets to implement a system of stricter dependency controls.
