.Dd October 7, 2018
.Dt PERPHUP 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm perphup
.Nd trigger a perpd rescan
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl hV
.Op Fl q
.Op Fl t
.Op Ar basedir
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used to trigger
.Xr perpd 8
to rescan its service installation directory.
.Nm
may also be used to trigger the controlled shutdown of
.Xr perpd 8
and all of its services.
.Pp
.Nm
looks for an instance of
.Xr perpd 8
running on the argument given by
.Ar basedir .
Otherwise,
.Nm
looks for a value in the environmental variable
.Ev PERP_BASE .
If neither of these are defined or are empty,
.Nm
uses a compiled-in default, normally
.Pa /etc/perp .
.Pp
When
.Nm
finds the
.Xr perpd 8
process, it sends it a SIGHUP signal.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl h
Help.
Print a brief usage message to stderr and exit.
.It Fl q
Quiet.
Normally after successfully finding and triggering a
.Xr perpd 8
process,
.Nm
prints a brief message to stderr.
The
.Fl q
option may be used to suppress this message.
.It Fl t
Term.
Normally
.Nm
sends a SIGHUP signal to the
.Xr perpd 8
process to trigger a rescan.
The
.Fl t
option is used to send a SIGTERM instead,
and triggers the
.Xr perd 8
shutdown sequence.
.It Fl V
Version.
Print the version number to stderr and exit.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Nm
exits with the following values:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width indent -offset indent -compact
.It 0
Success.
An active
.Xr perpd 8
process was found and triggered.
.It 100
Usage error.
For unknown options or other command-line errors.
Prints a brief diagnostic message to stderr on exit.
.It 111
System error.
Unexpected failures during system calls, privilege and/or resource problems,
or configuration problems in the
.Xr perpd 8
directory.
Prints a brief diagnostic message to stderr on exit.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr perp_intro 8 ,
.Xr perpboot 8 ,
.Xr perpctl 8 ,
.Xr perpd 8 ,
.Xr perpetrate 5 ,
.Xr perpls 8 ,
.Xr perpok 8 ,
.Xr perpstat 8 ,
.Xr sissylog 8 ,
.Xr tinylog 8
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Wayne Marshall
