.Dd October 8, 2018
.Dt PERPCTL 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm perpctl
.Nd runtime control utility for perpd services
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl hV
.Op Fl b Ar basedir
.Op Fl g
.Op Fl L
.Op Fl q
.Ar cmd
.Ar sv ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
sends the command specified in
.Ar cmd
to the
.Xr perpd 8
control interface for each service argument
.Ar sv .
.Pp
The argument
.Ar cmd
may be given as a single word of any length,
but only the first letter is considered.
The available commands include
.Pq with mnemonic in parentheses :
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It A Pq Activate
Sets the sticky bit on each
.Ar sv
service directory argument and
sends SIGHUP to
.Xr perpd 8
The effect is to activate each
.Ar sv
service.
.It X Pq [e]Xit
Unsets the sticky bit on each
.Ar sv
service directory argument and
sends SIGHUP to
.Xr perpd 8
The effect is to bring down each
.Ar sv
service and remove it
from the set of services
.Xr perpd 8
is monitoring.
.It d Pq down
If the service is running,
send it a sequence of SIGTERM and SIGCONT signals to bring it down.
.Xr perpd 8
will flag the service as wanting down:
if the service stops it will not be restarted.
.It u Pq up
If the service is not already running, start it.
.Xr perpd 8
will flag the service as wanting up:
if the service stops it will be restarted.
.It o Pq once
If the service is not already running, start it.
.Xr perpd 8
will flag the service to run once:
if the service stops it will not be restarted.
.It p Pq pause
Send the service a SIGSTOP signal.
Normally this suspends execution of the service.
.Xr perpd 8
will flag the service as paused.
.It c Pq continue
Send the service a SIGCONT signal.
Normally a paused service will then resume execution.
.Xr perpd 8
will remove a pause flag on the service.
.It a Pq alarm
.It h Pq hup
.It i Pq interrupt
.It k Pq kill
.It q Pq quit
.It t Pq term
.It w Pq winch
.It 1 Pq usr1
.It 2 Pq usr2
Send the service a corresponding signal:
SIGALRM, SIGHUP, SIGINT, SIGKILL, SIGQUIT, SIGTERM, SIGWINCH, SIGUSR1 or SIGUSR2.
.It D Pq meta-Down
.It U Pq meta-Up
When given in upper-case, the
.Sy d Pq down
and
.Sy u Pq up
commands described above
are applied to both the main and log services.
.El
.Pp
The signal/control commands listed above
are applied to an active service process
running from the
.Dq start
target of its
.Xr perpetrate 5
runscript.
.Xr perpd 8
will otherwise ignore any of the commands described above
if received while a service is resetting,
except for the commands
.Sy c Pq continue/SIGCONT
or
.Sy k Pq kill/SIGKILL .
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl b Ar basedir
Base directory.
Sets the base directory containing the
.Ar sv
arguments.
If not set,
.Nm
will look for a value set in the environmental variable
.Ev PERP_BASE .
If neither of these is set,
.Nm
will operate on the current working directory.
.It Fl g
Group.
Apply the requested command to the process group id
.Pq pgid
of each
.Ar sv
service.
Normally the signal is applied only to the single process id of the service.
.Xr perpd 8
runs each main and log process in its own separate process group;
the
.Fl g
option directs
.Xr perpd 8
to signal all process running with the pgid of the service.
May be combined with the
.Fl L
option to signal all processes in the process group of the logging service.
.It Fl h
Help.
Print a brief usage message to stderr and exit.
.It Fl L
Logger.
Apply the
.Ar cmd
argument to the active logging service found in
.Ar sv
services.
By default, the
.Ar cmd
argument is applied to the main service.
The
.Fl L
option is not allowed when using any of the meta-commands
.Sy D , U ,
or
.Sy X .
.It Fl q
Quiet.
Normally after successfully applying the
.Ar cmd
to each
.Ar sv ,
.Nm
reports a brief message to stderr.
The
.Fl q
option may be used to suppress these messages.
.It Fl V
Version.
Print the version number of the program to stderr and exit.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Nm
exits with one of the following values:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width indent -offset indent -compact
.It 0
Success.
The
.Ar cmd
was successfully delivered to all
.Ar sv
service arguments.
.It 100
Usage error.
For unknown options, missing arguments, or other command-line errors.
Prints a brief diagnostic message to stderr on exit.
.It 111
System error.
One or more errors were encountered while processing.
These may include unexpected failures of system calls,
privilege and/or resource problems,
or configuration errors in the base directory.
A brief diagnostic message is printed to stderr for each error encountered.
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
For each
.Ar sv
successfully processed,
.Nm
prints a line to stderr in the form:
.Dl sv : ok
.Pp
For each
.Ar sv
not successfully processed,
.Nm
prints a brief diagnostic to stderr and continues processing any remaining
.Ar sv .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr perp_intro 8 ,
.Xr perpboot 8 ,
.Xr perpd 8 ,
.Xr perpetrate 5 ,
.Xr perphup 8 ,
.Xr perpls 8 ,
.Xr perpok 8 ,
.Xr perpstat 8 ,
.Xr sissylog 8 ,
.Xr tinylog 8
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Wayne Marshall
