.Dd October 6, 2018
.Dt PERP-SETUP 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm perp-setup
.Nd initialize a perp installation
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Ar basedir
.Op Ar ctldir
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a post-installation configuration script intended to
automate the setup of a
.Ar perp
system.
It is usually run only one-time,
after the installation of the
.Ar perp
package.
.Pp
.Nm
configures the base service directory as
given by the argument
.Ar basedir .
If the
.Ar basedir
argument is not specified,
.Nm
will use the environmental variable
.Ev PERP_BASE .
.Nm
will use a default value for
.Ar basedir ,
normally
.Pa /etc/perp .
.Pp
.Nm
creates the directories
.Ar basedir
and
.Pa basedir/.boot
if they don't already exist.
It then installs the standard
.Xr perpboot 8
scripts
.Pa rc.log
and
.Pa rc.perp
into
.Pa basedir/.boot ,
and sets them executable.
.Po
If either of these scripts already exists,
.Nm
leaves them alone and installs the new versions for review,
non-executable,
and with a
.Pa .new
extension
.Pc
.Pp
.Nm
then inspects the installation for the existence of
.Pa basedir/.control .
If it does not exist,
.Nm
configures
.Pa basedir/.control
as a symlink to the directory given by the argument
.Ar ctldir .
If the
.Ar ctldir
argument is not specified,
.Nm
will use the environmental variable
.Ev PERP_CTL .
If
.Ev PERP_CTL
is not set or empty,
.Nm
will use a default value for
.Ar ctldir ,
normally
.Pa /var/run/perp .
Note that the
.Nm
utility does not itself create the
.Ar ctldir
directory,
only the symlink.
.Pp
.Nm
then checks for a sysv-compatible
.Xr init 8
system by looking for the file
.Pa /etc/inittab .
If present, and if no
.Xr perpboot 8
entry is found within it,
.Nm
appends an
.Xr inittab 5
entry like the following:
.Pp
.Bd -literal -offset indent
##perpboot:
PB:12345:respawn:/usr/sbin/perpboot -x /etc/perp
.Ed
.Pp
Check to see that this entry and the
.Xr perpboot 8
runscripts are suitable for your installation.
A
.Ar SIGHUP
signal to
.Xr init 8
will then start the
.Ar perp
system:
.Pp
.Dl kill -HUP 1
.Pp
Otherwise,
.Nm
checks for a BSD-type
.Xr init 8
system by looking for the file
.Pa /etc/rc.local .
If present,
and if no
.Xr perpboot 8
is already found within it,
.Nm
appends an entry like the following:
.Pp
.Bd -literal -offset indent
## perpboot:
if [ -x /usr/sbin/perpboot ]; then
    echo -n ' perpd'
        /usr/sbin/perpboot -d /etc/perp
fi
.Ed
.Pp
Check to see that this entry and the
.Xr perpboot 8
runscripts are suitable for your installation.
The
.Ar perp
system will then start after the system is rebooted:
.Pp
.Dl shutdown -r now
.Pp
Whether using
.Ar inittab
or
.Pa rc.local ,
the administrator should look over the boot scripts and modify them if/as necessary for
the specific installation.
.Pp
The default
.Pa rc.log
script installed by
.Nm
configures
.Xr tinylog 8
as the
.Xr perpd 8
logger.
The adminstrator may modify the logger and/or logging options
by editing the script directly.
The
.Pa rc.log
script also tries to run
.Xr tinylog 8
as an unprivileged user with
.Xr runuid 8
The adminstrator will need to add a
.Dq tinylog
user/group account
to the system to enable this feature.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width PERP_BASE
.It Ev DESTDIR
If this variable is defined and non-empty,
.Nm
prepends
.Ar basedir
with this value before making directories and installing files.
Implies NO_INIT,
that is,
.Nm
will skip setting up any system boot scripts
.Ar inittab
or
.Pa rc.local .
May be useful for package builders.
.It Ev NO_INIT
If this variable is defined and non-empty,
.Nm
skips installation of any
.Xr perpboot 8
stanzas into the system bootscripts
.Ar inittab
and
.Pa rc.local .
May be useful for package installation scripts,
and/or when using other methods
.Po
such as an
.Pa /etc/rc.d
script
.Pc
for starting
.Xr perpboot 8 .
.It Ev PERP_BASE
If no
.Ar basedir
argument is given at the command-line on startup,
.Nm
checks for a value defined by
.Ev PERP_BOOT .
If this is not defined or empty,
.Nm
uses a built-in default, normally
.Pa /etc/perp .
.It Ev PERP_CTL
If no
.Ar ctldir
argument is given at the command-line on startup,
.Nm
checks for a value defined by
.Ev PERP_CTL .
If this is not defined or empty,
.Nm
uses a built-in default, normall
.Pa /var/run/perp .
.El
.Pp
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /etc/perp/.boot/rc.perp -compact
.It Pa /etc/perp/
The default base operating directory for
.Xr perpd 8 .
.It Pa /etc/perp/.boot/
Directory containing the startup scripts used by
.Xr perpboot 8 .
.It Pa /etc/perp/.boot/rc.log
Control script used by
.Xr perpboot 8
to start a logger for
.Xr perpd 8 .
.It Pa /etc/perp/.boot/rc.perp
Control script used by
.Xr perpboot 8
to start up
.Xr perpd 8 .
.It Pa /etc/perp/.control
Directory
.Pq normally a symlink
for runtime control files.
.It Pa /etc/inittab
.Xr inittab 5
configuration file for sysv-compatible system.
.It Pa /etc/rc.local
.Xr init 8
startup script for BSD-compatible system.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr perp_intro 8 ,
.Xr perpboot 8 ,
.Xr perpctl 8 ,
.Xr perpd 8 ,
.Xr perpetrate 5 ,
.Xr perphup 8 ,
.Xr perpls 8 ,
.Xr perpok 8 ,
.Xr perpstat 8 ,
.Xr sissylog 8 ,
.Xr tinylog 8 ,
.Xr runuid 8
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Wayne Marshall
