.Dd October 6, 2018
.Dt PERPBOOT 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm perpboot
.Nd startup utility for perpd and an associated logger
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl hV
.Op Fl dx
.Op Ar basedir
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a utility for starting and monitoring a
.Xr perpd 8
instance on
.Ar basedir
with an associated logger.
If
.Ar basedir
is not specified,
.Nm
will use the environmental variable
.Ev PERP_BASE .
If
.Ev PERP_BASE
is not set or empty,
.Nm
will use a compiled-in value for
.Ar basedir ,
normally
.Pa /etc/perp .
.Pp
Within
.Ar basedir ,
.Nm
switches into a subdirectory named
.Pa .boot/ .
It then forks two child processes to exec
.Pa ./rc.log
and
.Pa ./rc.perp ,
with a pipe connected between their respective stdin and stdout.
.Pp
Normally
.Pa ./rc.log
will be an executable script that execs into a stdin logger,
such as
.Xr tinylog 8
or
.Xr sissylog 8 .
Similarly,
.Ar ./rc.perp
will be an executable script that ultimately execs into
.Xr perpd 8 .
See the examples section below for sample scripts.
.Pp
.Nm
sets up its
.Pa ./rc.log
and
.Pa ./rc.perp
child processes with an environment that:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It \(bu
closes all extraneous file descriptors
.It \(bu
redirects unused stdin, stdout, and stderr to
.Pa /dev/null
.It \(bu
redirects the stdin of
.Pa ./rc.log
to the stdout of
.Pa ./rc.perp
.Pq and vice versa
.It \(bu
redirects the stderr of
.Pa ./rc.perp
to stdout
.Po
with the effect that both stdout and stderr of
.Pa ./rc.perp
are captured by the logger
.Pc
.It \(bu
sets the environmental variable
.Ev PERP_BASE
to the value used for
.Ar basedir
.El
.Pp
By default,
.Nm
itself acts as lightweight supervisor for the
.Pa ./rc.log
and
.Pa ./rc.perp
child processes.
If
.Nm
notices that either of these processes has died,
it will try to restart them.
.Ss Signals
If
.Nm
gets the SIGTERM signal,
it performs a shutdown sequence on its child processes:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It \(bu
sends SIGTERM and SIGCONT to the
.Pa ./rc.perp
process and waits for it to terminate
.It \(bu
closes its own copy of the input pipe to the
.Pa ./rc.log
process and waits for the logger to terminate
.It \(bu
exits 0
.El
.Pp
Otherwise, when
.Nm
runs as a lightweight supervisor
.Po
without the
.Fl x
option
.Pc
it traps all the other signals it can and relays them directly to the
.Pa ./rc.perp
child process with
.Xr kill 2 .
.\" .Ss Note
.\" The
.\" .Nm
.\" utility is a purpose-specific modification of
.\" .Xr rundeux 8 .
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d
Detach.
Normally
.Nm
itself runs in the foreground.
The
.Fl d
option causes
.Nm
to detach from the controlling terminal and run as a background process.
This option is useful when starting
.Nm
from within a BSD-type boot script
such as
.Pa rc.local .
.It Fl h
Help.
Print a brief usage message to stderr and exit.
.It Fl V
Version.
Print the version number to stderr and exit.
.It Fl x
Exit.
Normally
.Nm
stays resident as a system process that monitors its
.Pa ./rc.log
and
.Pa ./rc.perp
child processes.
The
.Fl x
option causes
.Nm
to start
.Pa ./rc.log
and then replace itself with the
.Pa ./rc.perp
process.
This option is used to reduce process overhead
and/or when you don't feel the need to retain
.Nm
as a supervisor.
As one example,
this option might be used within an
.Xr inittab 5
specification configured with the
.Ar action
specified as
.Dq respawn .
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width PERP_BASE
.It Ev PERP_BASE
If no
.Ar basedir
argument is given at the command-line on startup,
.Nm
checks for a value defined by
.Ev PERP_BOOT .
If this is not defined or empty,
.Nm
uses a compiled-in default, normally
.Pa /etc/perp .
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /etc/perp/.boot/rc.perp -compact
.It Pa /etc/perp/
The default base operating directory for
.Xr perpd 8 .
.It Pa /etc/perp/.boot/
Directory containing the startup scripts used by
.Nm .
.It Pa /etc/perp/.boot/rc.log
Control script used by
.Nm
to start a logger for
.Xr perpd 8 .
.It Pa /etc/perp/.boot/rc.perp
Control script used by
.Nm
to start up
.Xr perpd 8 .
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
An example
.Pa ./rc.log
script may look like this:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
#!/bin/sh
LOGDIR=/var/log/perpd
exec tinylog -k 8 -s 100000 -t ${LOGDIR}
.Ed
.Pp
This script execs into an instance of
.Xr tinylog 8
maintaining a rotated set of log files in
.Pa /var/log/perpd
with a maximum of 8 keep files,
a maximum log size of 100000 bytes,
and with timestamp prepended entries.
.Pp
An example
.Pa ./rc.perp
script:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
#!/bin/sh
exec perpd -a 6 $PERP_BASE
.Ed
.Pp
Here the script execs into
.Xr perpd 8
with autoscanning set to 6 seconds.
Note also that the environmental variable
.Ev PERP_BASE
is defined and available for the
.Pa ./rc.perp
and
.Pa ./rc.log
scripts.
.Pp
These simple scripts could be customized and embellished considerably.
For example, the
.Pa ./rc.log
script could:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It \(bu
check/create existence/permissions of log directory
.It \(bu
drop privilege before running
.Xr tinylog 8
\-\- see
.Xr runuid 8
.El
.Pp
Similarly, the
.Pa ./rc.perp
script could perform other initializations before the
.Xr perpd 8
exec:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It \(bu
check/create existence and symlink for
.Pa /etc/perp/.control
.It \(bu
clean out stale control directories/files in
.Pa /etc/perp/.control
.El
.Pp
.Xr perpd 8
itself may be invoked in the way that best suits the
.Xr init 8
system and boot scripts of the host environment.
A sysv-compatible system may use an
.Xr inittab 5
file configured with this entry:
.Pp
.Dl PB:23456:respawn:/usr/sbin/perpboot -x /etc/perp
.Pp
This example shows the
.Fl x
option,
with the effect that
.Xr init 8
itself will monitor the
.Xr perpd 8
process and respawn it if it dies.
.Pp
A BSD-type system may use an
.Pa rc.local
file with this entry:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
if [ -x /usr/sbin/perpboot ]; then
    echo -n ' perpd'
      /usr/sbin/runenv -i /etc/perp/.boot/perp.env \\\^
          /usr/sbin/perpboot -d /etc/perp
fi
.Ed
.Pp
In this example, the
.Fl d
option is used to run
.Nm
as a daemon process.
.Pp
This example is further embellished to show the use of the
.Xr runenv 8
runtool to setup a clean environment for the
.Xr perpd 8
process and its children.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr perp_intro 8 ,
.Xr perp-setup 8 ,
.Xr perpctl 8 ,
.Xr perpd 8 ,
.Xr perpetrate 5 ,
.Xr perphup 8 ,
.Xr perpls 8 ,
.Xr perpok 8 ,
.Xr perpstat 8 ,
.Xr sissylog 8 ,
.Xr tinylog 8 ,
.Xr rundeux 8
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Wayne Marshall
