.Dd October 7, 2018
.Dt PERPLS 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm perpls
.Nd persistent process service lister
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl hV
.Op Fl b Ar basedir
.Op Fl cGgrt
.Op Ar sv ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is used to list the current status of each
.Ar sv
argument monitored by an active
.Xr perpd 8
supervisor.
.Pp
.Nm
looks for
.Ar sv
in the directory
.Ar basedir
if given with the
.Fl b
option,
or as set in the
.Ev PERP_BASE
environmental variable,
or in the current directory if neither of the previous is given.
If no
.Ar sv
is given,
.Nm
reports on all the subdirectories found in the base directory
not beginning with
.Sq \&. .
.Pp
For each service
.Ar sv ,
.Nm
prints a single line reporting on the status of the service.
The report for each service is given in a format similar to the following:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# perpls foo
[+ +++ +++]  foo  uptime: 5s/5s  pids: 278/269
.Ed
.Pp
The line begins with a
.Dq panel
for the service,
followed by the name of the service
.Ar sv ,
followed by the current uptimes for the main/log processes,
followed by the pids for the main/log processes.
.Pp
The
.Dq panel
is a compact representation of the service status.
It is displayed as a sequence of nine-characters within square brackets:
a single character for the status of the
.Xr perpd 8
supervisor itself,
followed by a pair of triple-character sequences representing
the main and log processes under its supervision.
.Pp
The following characters are used in the panel:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It +
Ok.
The process is up and running.
In the first position,
shows that the
.Xr perpd 8
upervisor itself is up and running.
If the panel is all
.Sq + ,
it means all systems are go.
.It \&.
Down.
The process is currently down.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# perpctl down foo && perpls foo
[+ ... +++]  foo  uptime: -s/90s  pids -/269
.Ed
.It !
Attention.
Appears in the first position of a triplet sequence
when the service is currently in a state it doesn't want to be in.
There is a problem somewhere,
often indicating that a runscript is not executable.
For example, a service currently down but
.Dq wants
to be up:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# perpctl down foo
# chmod -x foo/rc.main
# perpctl up foo && perpls foo
[+ !.. +++]  foo  uptime: -s/90s  pids 299/26
.Ed
.It o
Once.
Appears in the second position of a triplet sequence
when the process is up and running,
but flagged to run only once:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# perpctl once foo && perpls foo
[+ +o+ +++]  foo  uptime: 90s/90s  pids 278/269
.Ed
.It p
Paused.
Appears in the third position of a triplet sequence
when the process is currently paused:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# perpctl pause foo && perpls foo
[+ ++p +++]  foo  uptime: 90s/90s  pids 278/269
.Ed
.It r
Resetting.
Appears in the third position of a triplet sequence
when the service is currently resetting:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# perpctl pause foo && perpls foo
[+ ++r +++]  foo  uptime: 1s/90s  pids 299/269
.Ed
.It -
Not active/available.
In the first position of the panel,
indicates the service definition
.Ar sv
is not active.
The rest of the panel will be filled by
.Sq -
characters,
and no reporting will appear for uptimes and pids.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# chmod -t foo && perpls foo
[- --- ---]  foo
.Ed
.It E
Error.
Appears only in the first position for overall status.
Displayed when a problem was encountered in finding the
.Ar sv
argument or its
.Xr perpd 8
supervisor.
The rest of the panel will be filled by
.Sq -
characters,
and followed by a diagnostic message describing the error:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# perpls foo
[E --- ---]  foo  error: failure stat() on service directory (ENOENT)
.Ed
.El
.Ss Colorized Listings
On terminals with color support,
.Nm
may display a
.Dq colorized
listing when given the
.Fl G
option on the command line,
or if
.Ev PERPLS_COLORS
is defined with a capability string in the environment.
The colorization is applied to the
.Ar sv
name in the report according to the status found for the service.
Colorization is based on ANSI
.Pq ISO 6429
color sequences,
selected from a capability table that defines
the following entries
.Pq default values shown in parentheses :
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It df
Default
.Pq df=00 .
Applied when a capability is otherwise undefined.
.It na
Not active
.Pq na=00 .
Applied when a service is not activated.
.It an
Active-normal
.Pq an=01 .
Applied when the main service is active and running normally.
.It ar
Active-resetting
.Pq ar=01;33 .
Applied when the main service is resetting.
.It ap
Active-paused
.Pq ap=01;33 .
Applied when the main service is paused.
.It ad
Active-down
.Pq ad=01;34 .
Applied when the main service is down.
.It wu
Want-up
.Pq wu=01;33 .
Applied when the main service is down but wants up.
.It wd
Want-down
.Pq wd=01;33 .
Applied when the main service is up but wants down.
.It er
Error
.Pq er=01;31 .
Applied when an error encountered.
.It ex
Exception
.Pq ex=01;31 .
Applied when an exceptional condition encountered.
.El
.Pp
In a default installation,
the capability table will be predefined with the following string:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
"df=00:na=00:an=01:ar=01;33:ap=01;33:\\
ad=01;34:wu=01;33:wd=01;33:er=01;31:ex=01;31"
.Ed
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl b Ar basedir
Base directory.
Look for
.Ar sv
in
.Ar basedir .
.It Fl c
Current directory.
Look for
.Ar sv
in the current directory,
even if
.Ev PERP_BASE
is defined in the environment.
.It Fl g
No color.
Do not colorize listing,
even if
.Ev PERPLS_COLORS
is defined in the environment.
.It Fl G
Colorize.
Display a colorized listing.
Use the capability table given by
.Ev PERPLS_COLORS
if defined in the environment,
or use a built-in capability table if
.Ev PERPLS_COLORS
is not defined.
.It Fl h
Help.
Print a brief usage message to stderr and exit.
.It Fl K
Capability.
Print the current capability table for colorized listings and exit.
The environment variable
.Ev PERPLS_COLORS
must be defined.
Otherwise this option must be combined with the
.Fl G
option to display the built-in capability table.
.It Fl r
Reverse sort.
Display the listing in reverse order.
Normally the listing appears in the order of
.Ar sv
given on the command line,
or in alphabetical order if no
.Ar sv
are given.
The
.Fl r
option lists in the reverse of this order.
This option may be combined with the
.Fl t
option.
.It Fl t
Uptime.
Display the listing ordered by uptime of the main service,
shortest uptimes first.
May be combined with the
.Fl r
option to display longest uptimes first.
.It Fl V
Version.
Print the version number to stderr and exit.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr perp_intro 8 ,
.Xr perpboot 8 ,
.Xr perpctl 8 ,
.Xr perpd 8 ,
.Xr perpetrate 5 ,
.Xr perphup 8 ,
.Xr perpok 8 ,
.Xr perpstat 8 ,
.Xr sissylog 8 ,
.Xr tinylog 8
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Wayne Marshall
