.Dd October 8, 2018
.Dt TINYLOG 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm tinylog
.Nd log stdin to a directory of rotated log files
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl hV
.Op Fl k Ar numkeep
.Op Fl r
.Op Fl s Ar logsize
.Op Fl t
.Op Fl z
.Ar dir
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
reads lines from standard input and writes them to a set of rotated log files
maintained in
.Ar dir .
.Pp
While active,
.Nm
switches into
.Ar dir
and writes into a log file named
.Pa current .
When
.Pa current
reaches the size specified with the
.Fl s
option
.Pq default 100000 bytes ,
it rotates the file:
.Pa current
is renamed with a filename in the form
.Pa _yyyymmddThhmmss.uuuuuu.s ,
and a new
.Pa current
is opened.
.Pp
.Nm
maintains a set of older rotated log files in
.Ar dir ,
upto the number specified with the
.Fl k
option
.Pq default 5 .
After this number is reached,
.Nm
deletes the rotated log file with the oldest timestamp before
continuing with a new
.Pa current .
.Pp
If the
.Fl z
option is specified,
.Nm
will compress log files during rotation with the utility specified in the
environmental variable
.Ev TINYLOG_ZIP
.Po
default
.Pa /usr/bin/gzip
.Pc .
If the compression is successful,
the rotated log file is renamed with a
.Pa \&.Z
extension.
.Pp
The name of a rotated log file may be described further:
beginning with an underscore,
followed by a current
.Xr gmtime 3
timestamp in RFC8601 format
.Pq to the nearest microsecond ,
followed by a status suffix,
and optionally followed by a
.Pa .Z
zip extension.
Normally the status suffix is
.Pa .s ,
indicating the file was safely written to disk.
Otherwise a status suffix of
.Pa .u
indicates that the file was not safely written to disk,
and may possibly be incomplete and/or corrupted by an unexpected failure.
.Pp
.Nm
sets the file mode of
.Pa current
to 0644 while active.
When
.Nm
sees eof on stdin,
it writes any pending line to
.Pa current ,
fsyncs and closes the file,
and changes its mode to 0744 before exiting.
Whenever
.Nm
restarts,
it looks for an existing
.Pa current
and,
if one is found with a file mode 0744,
reopens it and changes its mode back to 0644 for continued logging.
Otherwise,
if an existing
.Pa current
is found set with a mode of 0644,
it is immediately rotated with a
.Pa .u ,
suffix,
and a new
.Pa current
is opened.
.Pp
.Nm
ignores empty lines,
truncates lines longer than 1000 characters,
and converts unprintable control characters to
.Sq \&? .
.Ss Signals
.Nm
traps the following signals for adminstrative control during runtime:
.Bl -tag -width SIGTERM
.It SIGHUP
Close and rotate
.Pa current ,
then continue logging with a new
.Pa current .
.It SIGTERM
Stop reading stdin,
process any pending lines already read,
flush and close
.Pa current
safely to disk,
then exit 0
.Pq no error .
Stdin will be left at the first byte of any unprocessed data.
.El
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl h
Help.
Print a brief usage message to stderr and exit.
.It Fl k Ar numkeep
Keep.
Sets the maximum number of log files that
.Nm
will keep after rotation.
Whenever
.Nm
rotates the most recent log file,
it deletes any more than
.Nm
older log files found in the directory.
The minimum number is 0,
in which case no older log files are kept.
If not specified,
the default number of older log files kept is 5.
.It Fl r
Rotate on start.
Normally on start-up,
.Nm
begins logging with an existing
.Pa current
file if it has been safely closed from a previous session.
The
.Fl r
option causes
.Nm
to immediately rotate any existing
.Pa current
file and begin logging with a new one.
.It Fl s Ar logsize
Size.
Sets the maximum size
.Pq in bytes
that a log file may grow before
rotation.
The minimum size is 2000.
The default size is 100000.
.It Fl t
Timestamp.
A current
.Xr gmtime 3
timestamp string in the form of
.Dq yyyymmddThhmmss.uuuuuu
is prepended
to each line written to the log file.
.It Fl V
Version.
Print the version number to stderr and exit.
.It Fl z
Zip.
This option instructs
.Nm
to run a compression utility when it rotates the log file.
The compression utility may be specified in the environmental variable
.Ev TINYLOG_ZIP .
If the variable is not set or empty,
.Nm
will use a compiled-in default,
usually
.Pa /usr/bin/gzip .
The compression utility should be designed to run without any arguments,
reading from stdin and writing to stdout.
After successful compression,
.Nm
will rename the rotated log file with a
.Pa .Z
extension.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width TINYLOG_ZIP
.It Ev TINYLOG_ZIP
If defined and the
.Fl z
option is specified,
will be taken as the executable for the compression utility to use when rotating a log file.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Nm
exits with the following values:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width indent -offset indent -compact
.It 0
Normally
.Nm
runs until eof is found on stdin,
or until it receives a
TERM
signal.
In these cases,
.Nm
writes any pending lines to the log,
flushes and closes
.Pa current ,
changes its mode to 0744,
and exits 0.
.It 100
.Nm
failed on startup because of some usage error,
such as invalid command-line option or missing argument.
In this case
.Nm
will print a brief diagnostic to stderr on exit.
.It 111
.Nm
found another instance or active lockfile running in
.Ar dir
or failed due to some other system or resource error on startup.
In this case
.Nm
will print a brief diagnostic to stderr on exit.
.El
.Pp
Otherwise,
after startup,
.Nm
tries very hard not to exit until eof is read on stdin.
In the case of system or resource failures,
.Nm
will print a diagnostic message to stderr,
pause for a brief interval,
and then retry the failed operation.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr perp_intro 8 ,
.Xr perpboot 8 ,
.Xr perpctl 8 ,
.Xr perpd 8 ,
.Xr perpetrate 5 ,
.Xr perphup 8 ,
.Xr perpls 8 ,
.Xr perpok 8 ,
.Xr perpstat 8 ,
.Xr sissylog 8
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Wayne Marshall
